A fast, terminal-based MUD client built for MUME and tuned for fast PvP.
TinTin++ owns the socket, triggers, and keybinds at the latency floor;
a Lua brain runs above it for state, timers, and anything that benefits
from a real programming language; tmux composes the game pane, an
input pane, and up to six side panes into one window. Starts in under
a second, with opt-in updates from the launcher, and behaves the same
on every machine.


CONNECTION

  MMapper   Routes through MMapper (localhost:4242). Recommended.
            MMapper is a graphical mapping companion for MUME — it
            sits between the cockpit and the server and gives you a
            live map of your surroundings, terrain colouring, room
            search, and pathfinding. Group map sharing lets you see
            party members move on the same map in real time.
            Multi-platform (Windows, macOS, Linux). Start MMapper
            before connecting.
            Download: github.com/MUME/MMapper/releases

  Direct    Connects to mume.org:4242 directly over TLS, bypassing
            MMapper.

  Custom    Connects to any host and port. Useful for test servers
            or proxies; configure from launcher Options.


GMCP

Full GMCP integration. Char, Comm.Channel, Event, Core, and Group
modules are negotiated at handshake and dispatched into Lua handlers.
Background collectors populate state.char, state.comm, state.world,
state.run, and state.group as messages arrive — vitals, kills,
channel traffic, alertness, sneak, climb, swim, position, group
member vitals, sun and moon state. New collectors are drop-in:
subscribe to a module, write to state.*, done.


SCRIPTING

Everyday reflexes — aliases, triggers, macros, highlights — live in
tt++ where they fire fastest. More complex automation lives on the Lua
layer above. Drop a self-contained .lua file in lua/scripts/, declare
its metadata in an @-tagged header at the top, and it shows up on the
launcher Scripts page (enabled or disabled); when enabled, it loads at
startup and registers its own commands. Remove the file and the
feature is gone — no leftover state. A small set of example scripts
ships with the client; writing your own is the intended use.


PROFILE EDITOR

Edit all your settings — aliases, actions, macros, highlights,
substitutes — from a graphical, intuitive interface, reached from the
launcher's Profile page. No knowledge of tt++ syntax required.


PANES

Beyond the main game window, the cockpit shows up to six side panes,
each toggleable at runtime: a character panel with live vitals,
position, mood, alertness, in-game time, and session XP/TP deltas
against a level-progress ruler; a timers grid with active spells,
buffs, debuffs, and stored spells — colour-coded by group, with
per-character durations learned over time and blink alerts on entries
about to expire; a group panel with party member vitals and
threshold-coloured bars; a communication pane with clickable channel
filters and a per-profile history that survives reloads and
reconnects; a UI pane for structured status messages from scripts and
the core systems (kills, warnings, lifecycle events); and a developer
pane for tracing. A dedicated input pane sits on its own line at the
bottom.

The input pane fixes long-standing terminal-client annoyances. The
buffer doesn't auto-clear after sending — the last command stays
highlighted, so a second Enter repeats it. Any printable key wipes
the highlight and starts a fresh command. Empty Enter sends a bare
newline (MUME uses this to cancel delayed casts) — never a silent
re-send. Shift+Home, Shift+End, and Ctrl+A all select the full
buffer in one move, so the next keystroke clears it.


READABILITY

Drop-in modules recolour, reformat, or gag MUD output to make it
easier to read at speed — tinting glowing or hidden objects, quieting
noisy lines, whatever you switch on. Toggle them per character from
Options → Readability; each module previews its before and after, so
you see what it does before committing.


RUNS AND STATISTICS

Every login starts a run. The cockpit writes a structured event
stream — kills, player kills, achievements, XP and TP gains and
losses, level-ups, group changes, deaths — plus a raw timestamped
capture of all server output. Press <Esc> mid-session to open the
Statistics frame: kills and PvPs sortable by name, count, or XP;
allies you grouped with; achievements earned; XP/h and TP/h
sparklines; and a ruler showing the level span the run covered.

Pick a session from the launcher's History page to re-open the same
view on any past run. Worth keeping? Press Save run and give it a
0–5 star rating; saved runs survive the 14-day retention sweep that
prunes everything else. Then watch it back in the built-in log
player: play, pause, scrub, click any line to jump. The launcher's
Spotlights reel runs through the same player, replaying your best
moments — kills, deaths, level-ups, achievements — gathered across
every character you've played.


COCKPIT COMMANDS

Most cockpit features are reachable from the in-game menu — press
<Esc> from any pane to open it. The menu covers reconnect, save run,
statistics, pane visibility and colours, scripts, and exit, and it
auto-opens when the connection drops. The cp command prefix offers
the same controls plus a few extras useful for scripting:

  cp -e              clean shutdown
  cp -s              save the current profile to disk
  cp -c              toggle character panel
  cp -t              toggle timers pane
  cp -g              toggle group pane
  cp -m              toggle communication pane
  cp -u              toggle UI pane
  cp -d              toggle dev pane
  cp -h              toggle pane border headers
  cp -reset-heights  reset right-column pane heights to defaults
  cp                 show the full command reference


MUME — MULTI-USERS IN MIDDLE-EARTH

MUME is a free, text-based multiplayer game set in Tolkien's Middle-earth
during the late Third Age — the years leading up to the War of the Ring.
Continuously running since 1991 and maintained by a volunteer community,
it remains one of the oldest active DikuMUDs and the reason this client
exists.

Pick a side. The Free Peoples — Men, Elves, Hobbits, Dwarves, Beornings
— hold the West. The forces of Sauron — Trolls, Black Númenóreans, Orcs
— push from the East. Renegade Zaugurz orcs are hated by both.
Three-faction warfare is the spine of the game.

The world is wide and faithful to the source material. The Shire, Bree,
Rivendell, the Grey Havens, Moria, Lothlórien, Fangorn, Fornost,
Tharbad, Isengard, the Warrens, the Orc Caves of the Misty Mountains,
and the Rohan zone — all recognizable, all explorable, all consequential.
Different regions have different laws; magic is illegal in the Shire
unless you're a citizen. Roleplaying is encouraged; names that don't
fit Middle-earth don't last.

PvP is what sets MUME apart. Capturable towers and terrain,
leaderboards, deep skill and spell systems, and a 30–50 player peak
that produces constant skirmishes between the sides. Big events draw
100+ players — trolls bringing battering rams to break the gates of
Blue Mountain, orcs and trolls raiding cities in coordinated waves.
The reaction-speed floor is high. A fast, scriptable client isn't a
luxury here; it's the thing that lets you keep up.

Free to play. No subscription. Just connect.

  Website   mume.org
  Discord   discord.gg/XkZN55am9a


PROJECT

  Source    github.com/Khazdul/mumecockpit
  License   see LICENSE in the repository root
  Version   read from the VERSION file at the repo root