A terminal-based MUD client built for MUME and tuned for fast PvP. 
TinTin++ owns the socket, triggers, and keybinds at the latency floor;
a Lua brain runs above it for state, timers, and anything that benefits
from a real programming language; tmux composes game, input, UI, and
character panes into one window. Starts in under a second, has no update
cycle, and behaves the same on every machine.

CONNECTION

  MMapper   Routes through MMapper (localhost:4242). Recommended.
            MMapper is a graphical mapping companion for MUME — it
            sits between the cockpit and the server and gives you a
            live map of your surroundings, terrain colouring, room
            search, and pathfinding. Group map sharing lets you see
            party members move on the same map in real time.
            Multi-platform (Windows, macOS, Linux). Start MMapper
            before connecting.
            Download: github.com/MUME/MMapper/releases

  Direct    Connects to mume.org:4242 directly, bypassing MMapper.


GMCP

Full GMCP integration. Char, Comm.Channel, Event, and Core modules are
negotiated at handshake and dispatched into Lua handlers. Background
collectors populate state.char, state.comm, and state.session as
messages arrive — vitals, kills, channel traffic, alertness, sneak,
climb, position. New collectors are drop-in: subscribe to a module,
write to state.*, done.


SCRIPTING

Everyday reflexes — aliases, triggers, macros, highlights — live in
tt++ where they fire fastest. More complex automation lives on the Lua
layer above. Drop a self-contained .lua file in lua/scripts/, call
register_script(), and it auto-loads at startup, registers its own
commands, and shows up in cp help and on the launcher Scripts page.
Remove the file and the feature is gone — no leftover state. A small
set of automation scripts ships with the client; writing your own is
the intended use.


PANES

Beyond the main game window, the cockpit can show four side panes,
each toggleable at runtime: a UI pane for structured status messages
from scripts and the core systems (kills, warnings, lifecycle events);
a character panel with live vitals, position, mood, and session XP/TP
totals; a communication pane that shows in-game communication channels;
and a dedicated input pane on its own line.

The input pane fixes long-standing terminal-client annoyances. The
buffer doesn't auto-clear after sending — the last command stays
highlighted, so a second Enter repeats it. Any printable key wipes
the highlight and starts a fresh command. Empty Enter sends a bare
newline (MUME uses this to cancel delayed casts) — never a silent
re-send. Shift+Home, Shift+End, and Ctrl+A all select the full 
buffer in one move, so the next keystroke clears it.


COCKPIT COMMANDS

Most cockpit features are reachable from the in-game menu — press
<Esc> from any pane to open it. The cp command prefix offers the
same controls plus a few extras useful for scripting and reload:

  cp -r     full reload (TinTin++ + Lua brain, no tmux restart)
  cp -e     clean shutdown
  cp -u     toggle UI pane
  cp -d     toggle dev pane
  cp -c     toggle character panel
  cp -i     toggle input pane
  cp -h     toggle pane border headers
  cp -m     toggle communication pane
  cp        show the full command reference

MUME — MULTI-USERS IN MIDDLE-EARTH

MUME is a free, text-based multiplayer game set in Tolkien's Middle-earth
during the late Third Age — the years leading up to the War of the Ring.
Continuously running since 1991 and maintained by a volunteer community,
it remains one of the oldest active DikuMUDs and the reason this client
exists.

Pick a side. The Free Peoples — Men, Elves, Hobbits, Dwarves, Beornings
— hold the West. The forces of Sauron — Trolls, Black Númenóreans, Orcs
— push from the East. Renegade Zaugurz orcs are hated by both.
Three-faction warfare is the spine of the game.

The world is wide and faithful to the source material. The Shire, Bree,
Rivendell, the Grey Havens, Moria, Lothlórien, Fangorn, Fornost,
Tharbad, Isengard, the Warrens, the Orc Caves of the Misty Mountains,
and the Rohan zone — all recognizable, all explorable, all consequential.
Different regions have different laws; magic is illegal in the Shire
unless you're a citizen. Roleplaying is encouraged; names that don't
fit Middle-earth don't last.

PvP is what sets MUME apart. Capturable towers and terrain,
leaderboards, deep skill and spell systems, and a 30–50 player peak
that produces constant skirmishes between the sides. Big events draw
100+ players — trolls bringing battering rams to break the gates of
Blue Mountain, orcs and trolls raiding cities in coordinated waves.
The reaction-speed floor is high. A fast, scriptable client isn't a
luxury here; it's the thing that lets you keep up.

Free to play. No subscription. Just connect.

  Website   mume.org
  Discord   discord.gg/XkZN55am9a

PROJECT

  Source    github.com/Khazdul/mumecockpit
  License   see LICENSE in the repository root
  Version   read from the VERSION file at the repo root